Oh hello and welcome to No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming to you from
the QI offices in Covert Garden. My name is Anagentsky, not Dan Shriver and I am sitting
here with James Harkin, Andrew Hunter Murray and Anne Miller. Once again we've gathered
round the microphones with our four favourite facts from the last seven days and in no
particular order here we go. Starting with My Facts, which is Cockroaches can carry 900
times their own body weight on their backs. Amazing. It's impressive isn't it? So what
is 900 times bigger than a Cockroach? 900 Cockroaches. Oh wow. Cockroaches, fire fighters
must be very good indeed. I'll take everyone. Oh I'm just going to everything from your
house don't worry about it. Well what the whole house? Oh no it's still a fire. I worked
out that that would mean that I would be able to carry the biggest dinosaur that ever
walked the earth, which is Argentinosaurus. Wow. So if I was a Cockroach. That would
look really impressive. If you were a Cockroach, as in as a human you would be able to.
If I was a human sized Cockroach and the laws of physics didn't really apply to me but
just this one particular fact applied to me, then I'd be able to carry that. Oh and if
dinosaurs still existed. There were a lot of bigifs in there, but it's still impressive.
So yeah, this is I read this in an article which was published by the science, the journal
science. The article is actually written by someone called Elizabeth Penisi. This is a
report on Cockroaches and how they're basically impossible to squash and it looked into
why. So they're extremely flexible and extremely hard and really good at lifting stuff. And
so they they worked that out obviously by how you'd think they did, by putting heavier and
heavier stuff on Cockroaches backs and seeing at what point they crushed. But we haven't said
there are 4,500 species of Cockroach. So is this only one species of Cockroach? Oh, that's
strong one. This was an American Cockroach, famously strong. It's been to the gym, yeah.
Exactly. A Jock. Jockroach. I already think about how we had this image of Cockroaches is sort
of being very hardy and surviving everything, but it really varies. There are 64 rays can
kill 93% of German Cockroaches, which is 10 times more than humans can take, but like way,
way, way less than a fruit fly can take. So a fruit fly can survive more radiation.
Oh, radiation. Yeah. Yeah. So because they might play some Cockroaches, they're really
hardy and somewhat. But we sort of think of Cockroaches as this one uniform thing and actually
they're very different individuals. Yeah. I think that's good. That's good speaking
up for Cockroaches. Yeah. And not just horrible things. They're each very special in their
own way. Do you know what happens to elderly Cockroaches?
Oh, I read about this experiment and it's amazing. It's great. Well, they get dodgery. So
the scientists looked at elderly Cockroaches and they found that their joint sees up and
they have trouble walking up hills. Oh, yeah. And they spend less time moving around.
They move more slowly when they do move around. They develop slightly racist views.
The other kinds of Cockroaches. So basically they did this experiment. They
tried to make them walk up slopes and things. They only found one method which could rejuvenate
an elderly Cockroach and make it, you know, this was testing whether a particular species
could run off after being nudge. Right. And the best way to ensure that elderly Cockroaches
can run off after being nudge is to decapitate them. Oh. But it's a bit of an extreme.
Yeah. I'd rather be dodgery. Yeah. So in this experiment that I got this
fact from, they were mainly actually looking at how Cockroaches can squeeze through such
tiny spaces. So the American Cockroach, for instance, which is about 9mm tall can squeeze
through a slit that's 3mm high. And so they looked at exactly how they do that. And it's
really cool. They'll come across a little hole. And first of all, they inspect it with
their antenna. So, you know, to feel around, feel how small it is. Then they jam their
head through. And then they squeeze their front legs through after it. So they're really
pushing their body down, squeezing their front legs through. And then they sort of drag
the rest of the body behind them. And their back legs are really split out. So when you
look at it, they're completely flat. They're back legs are split out, but sort of still
pushing them. And it takes them one second to do that. Wow. And they're much better than
any animal squeezing except an octopus, I think, which can squeeze itself quite small
as well. That's fast enough. That's terrifying. So what they're also really good at is
fighting. So they can fight with five times more relative strength than humans can, which
is terrifying. And cockroaches will eat everything, including other cockroaches and humans.
And the thing about sailors. Cockroaches don't eat humans. No, they don't. Not all of
you, because they're only small, but if they were big enough. So sailors on ships, apparently,
where some sailors wear gloves, because our cockroaches will sneak up in the night and
eat their finger nails. Really? That's quite good. Yeah. Don't need to take nails as
day one. So here's something I have in common with cockroaches. They don't like mornings.
Inasmuch as they're literally unable to form any new memories at the start of the day. So
if you teach them something at the start of the day, they'll just forget it. And if you
teach them in the afternoon, then they'll remember it. Is there a reason, do they think behind
that or they just go out really late? Yeah, we just like to stay up late. You and your cockroach
friends. I'm glad you can speak on behalf of the cockroaches now, James. But they don't
like the light today. So I wonder if it's something to do with that. Because their name,
'blatterdaya' in Latin means insect that shuns the light. And also, the creepy ones might
eat your finger nails, but I'm sure when I started at QI's, really, in fact, that was if
we don't like the idea of cockroaches, but they don't like the idea of us. Some of them
if they touch a human will run away and clean themselves. That's weird because they love touching,
don't they? I think we've said this before, but that's why they like being in really tiny spaces
and they're like crawling into it is. And that's because they really like touching the edges of things.
And this comes in handy for a guy called Stephen Kutcher, who is Hollywood's bug artist.
So he's got this super cool job if anyone is using this. He's got a super cool job, but his brother
Raston's doing a lot better. Well, it depends what you mean by better. But can you imagine
those Christmas dinners of the Kutcher household? Well, you'd be doing. Well, Stephen gets to say,
I'm at the very top of my fields. Which I don't think can be true. We don't need to get into the
Ashton Kutcher debate here, but anyway, so Stephen sort of recruits bugs for films like Spider-Man
and recruits. Are you around? Are you free? Yes, there's fingernails out. I hope they come to him.
Yeah, it's like that. And then he trains them up. And so he did this interview for MPR, where he was
talking about a film called Race the Sun. And what he had to do was he had to get a cockroach to
emerge from a shoe, walk onto a bag of cheetos, turn left, and then walk through some cheetos that
had spilled out of it, and then stop on a magazine. So we had to get a cockroach to do all of this
without any prompting. And he did it by folding the bag of cheetos in a certain way. And because
they really like touching things, he just folded it in a way that they'd follow the folds around.
And it steered it exactly. That's so clever. I would just glue a magnet to the underside
of the cockroach and then move that around under the filming surface. I would do it in post.
Hollywood secrets from the NOSX thing is a fish team. Yeah, that's really cool.
You know, you don't get that in Heat magazine. In Russia, in 2008, they wanted to find some
cockroaches in Moscow to send into space. They needed a 54. They sort of recruited my friend,
Stephen Kutcher. Well, it took them three months to find 54 cockroaches in Russia. And then
everyone was like, oh my god, what's happened to all our cockroaches in Russia? And there was a big
worry about it. People blamed like cell tower radiation or GM food or probably foreigners. So,
you know, like people blame whatever they blame. And we don't really know what happened. But then
around 2011, they started coming back. And then in the early 2010s, there was a huge plague of cockroaches
in Moscow. So they kind of just disappeared and then they all came back. And what it might have been
is maybe they started using some pesticide the government did. And then it killed them all. But then
they got used to it. And then when they got used to it, they really came back with a vengeance.
God, wow. It's a big holiday. Big cockroach holiday.
That's because whenever I go on holiday, there's always cockroaches in the room.
You have to start improving your accommodation on that. Whenever.
Oh, I did find one thing I liked, which is that as female cockroaches get older,
they gradually lower their standards of what they think is acceptable in a mate.
Yeah, I think we can all feel for that. But the male cockroach, we can all hope for that.
Males are completely unable to assess females age or assess their reproductive fitness. They're
just willing to mate at all times. But females start out with quite high standards. And then
as time goes by, they broaden their standards. They're all cockroaches, you're dating them, so.
They don't move on to more attractive animals. That would be amazing, wouldn't it? If all animals
were dating all other animals. Well, they aren't very sexual, aren't they? The only thing they like
more than food, I think, is sex cockroaches. I think the males are very sexual. The females actually
aren't as intersex. And so if a male is starving to death, and it's got a bit of food in front of him,
but then you spray some female pheromone 16 feet away, it will run to the female pheromone and
die of starvation because it wants sex more than food. Yeah. Do you guys know that cockroach milk
is the most nutritious substance on earth, or one of the most nutritious substances on earth? Maybe he's
running to the woman cockroach to get some milk rather than for sex. You're right, he must have
read the same article that I did. Yeah, so I didn't know that they've milked the Pacific beetle cockroach,
and they found that it has four times more calories than cow's milk. And yeah, it's full of protein
and fats and sugars, and this cockroach is the only cockroach that gives birth to live young,
and then it sort of pumps out this special milk for its babies. And it's really cool, it looks
really glittery, because it's got protein crystals in it. Wow. Great. Well, I'll look for a tiny, tiny bottle
of milk in the supermarket next time I'm in. It's not milk per se, is it? Is something slightly
different to milk, I think? Yeah, I don't know why, but... It's a creation. Yeah, it doesn't. Lovely.
What I mean is, when you're in the supermarket, you won't be able to call it cockroach milk. Like,
these days, they're stopping people from calling things almond milk, aren't they? If it doesn't contain
lactose or something. You're saying the dairy industry might get annoyed if I start selling my
cockroach milk. I think they will. I think you might have to call it cockroach secretion, like
hand suggests. And I don't want to buy that, but I'm only one person, so. No, I do think we need to work
on the branding. Okay, let's move on to our next facts, and that is Am's facts. My fact is that the
first British travellers aboard the Orient Express were advised to bring a revolver and the tea pot
with them, all the essentials. So when the Orient Express began, it wasn't quite the luxurious
train ride we imagined. So actually, it went from Paris to Constantinople, but twice the passengers
had to get off and get on boats instead. So I think the idea was they had once to bring protection
in case there was a rocus at the ports. And the tea pots. Making tea? Making tea?
Pass the time. If you were coming from a rocus, what do you need? You need a nice cup of tea. That's true.
So the Orient Express was founded by the company Wagon Lee, Wagon's Lits in English, and that was
founded by George Knuckle Knackers, who that's how you pronounce that in every language. And he
is quite interesting because he decided to do the sleeper carriages when he went to the United States
for America. And he went to the USA because he was encouraged to go there because while in Europe,
he fell in love with his cousin and his family decided that he should go to the USA to kind of get over
her. So it's strange because falling in love with your cousin was an occupational hazard in the 19th
century. It must have been an unsuitable cousin. I think it was a cousin did not like him back.
But Knuckle Knackers, so he set out that first trip to Constantinople and actually there wasn't
a full railing for six years after his first Orient Express ran. But also the Orient Express,
we have this idea of it being this beautiful long train. And that sort of, I think the idea
of like redness effect in night trains, but Andrew Martin. And he says, because it's went on a long
journey, we sort of assume it was long, but actually that first train, there are only five carriages.
And one of them was a Wagon carrying post, which helped them recoup some of their costs.
Express, you think of it as being, you know, 15 carriages long. Yeah. It's got all this stuff in
there. It's only five carriages. That's tiny. Yeah. So many fewer suspects.
But also, I got the Christie. I used to take the Orient Express a lot because she, her husband,
second husband was an archaeologist. They take it to go to digs. But she was apparently one time
between Venice and Paris was attacked by bedbugs. I shouldn't write that into the book.
Oh, that's not what you want from your luxury train. You imagine like, you know, like really
grand and lovely. Yeah. Wasn't Knuckle Knackers, was it Pullman carriages that he was inspired by?
Yes, he went to America and he fell in love with them. He was by the name of his cousin.
But Pullman carriages were a huge deal. So they were these, yeah, this luxury way of traveling that
was pioneered in America. And they also gave rise to Pullman porters. And I didn't really say
Pullman porters with the people who carried your luggage on a Pullman carriage. And George Pullman
came up with the idea straight after the Civil War of only employing ex slaves as these Pullman
porters. So every single Pullman porter was black. And they ended up being really important in
the Civil Rights movement because they formed the first union of black people, the first union
that involved black people. And that allowed them to get together and to fight for their rights
and things like that. But they all, when they were working on the Pullman carriages, had to be called
George. So every Pullman porter was called George after George Pullman, which some of them ejected
to because most of them weren't actually called George. Yeah. You'd think the majority. It didn't turn
out to be most of them had other names. And there was a society. There was a society called
the Society for the Prevention of Calling Sleeper Carporteurs George. And this was actually a genuinely
really important society. But it wasn't porters. I mean cruelty to animals and cruelty to
children is shortly higher up the list of prevention of. No, it's not. Okay. Prevention of calling
people George. This society was actually formed by other people who were called George in America.
So it had 31,000 members and they were saying George is our name. Stop just randomly giving this name
to train porters. I mean, I don't think they should have been calling these porters, George. But you
can't stop other people from having your name. Well, these George's, you know, they didn't want it.
You can't think that your name's a bit too common. You don't want to make it more and more common.
Yeah. There is a phrase in fiction or things like saying leave it to George, which I thought was
a sort of 40s phrase or calling everyone George was a thing that happened. I think it comes from that.
Yeah. But then you couldn't because eventually this society for the prevention of calling people George
actually persuaded the Pullman Company to ban it. So by 1926, there had to be a little rack installed
in each carriage that said the name of your porter to ensure that you didn't call him George because
the George was objected so much. If they were accidentally called George, not accidentally. If they
happened to call George, you're forced to not be called George. You're all called Herbert.
And the interesting thing about Pullman, he was seen as this great entrepreneur, etc. But there was a
depression in 1893 and it meant that he cut the wages of all of his staff, but they were all staying
in a town that he built and he didn't reduce the rent. So he meant that workman might make $9.7
in a fortnight, but he would take $9 of it as rent, leaving them a paycheck of just $0.7 for everything
else. It's not worth caching, is it? It really isn't. It's really bad. So they strike because of this.
And then the soldiers came in and I think quite a few people died. And then Pullman's reputation just
went from hero to absolutely nothing, which is not the same. You're right, it's the phrase, yeah.
But yeah, he became really, really hated to such an extent that when he was buried, his family
covered his coffin in a large block of cement because they were worried people would abuse his corpse
because he was hated so much. It must have been very difficult for the poor poor bearers. Yes.
You're right. Did you know that? In 1936, you could travel from England to France by train,
completely by train. Still come. You still come. But it's surprising then. So you could do it.
It's not surprising. There was no tunnel. No, there was no tunnel, but there were ferries. So there was this
thing called the night ferry, which took trains on board it. So it was only if you were traveling
first class. There was a special, there were special trains. And they went, I think from Paddington
actually. And if you were in first class, your train just ran straight onto the ferry. You stayed
aboard it and then it ran straight off the ferry at the other end. But if you're in economy class,
you had to get off the carriage. So with a tracks leading up onto the ferry and then at the other
end, there were tracks leading off. So that meant they'd have to have the same gauge. Yeah, because they
have different gauges in Europe, don't they? Or is it the... It's like a universal plug, you know,
when you go on holiday and you can adapt it to it. The carriage might go onto another gauged.
Of course. Because the carriage sometimes lifts up. You've got a flatbed truck with a different
gauge and then the whole carriage is lifted up. It's lifted up. Yeah, yeah. It would be a weird journey,
wouldn't it? Your carriage being lifted up and swung a little bit. Waking up at the wrong point,
I mean, like, where are we? That's so cool. So I've got a fact about modern trains, which is about
the Queen, who, as we know, has the royal train. So when she's travelling on the royal train and
when she's been travelling overnight, there's a special instruction that gets given out. And that is
that the Queen has a bath at 7.30 in the morning. So if the train is going then, the driver is ordered
the driver is ordered to avoid any bumpy bits of track so that her bath doesn't slosh around too much.
That's weird knowing when the Queen has a bath. I think you'd be freaked out as the train driver.
Every morning at 7.30 you'd think, "Oh, she's passing now." Don't make any mistakes. She's naked,
ten yards from me. It's a weird thought. It's a big train. I don't think it's any ten metres.
She's like in the cab, in the tub. He puts the bath next to the driver seat. More coal.
Just one thing I had on suitcases. So this is about luggage and suitcases. And I was wondering what
the history of luggage is. And I read that. The first wheelie suitcases were in 11.53. And
they were used by the night time. They were meant to be my lifetime. Well, you're a very old man.
I can't believe the night went to the crusades with Trunkey's face.
Little Trunkey. You don't see that. Do you? You don't see them running into the bathroom with it?
A little trolley behind them. You would leave it behind, wouldn't you? Back up the hotel.
But no, I read this. It was in a lowly planet guide and another book actually. And I can't find
any source for it. But apparently, yeah. And they would use these wheelie suitcases to carry their
chainmail and their arms and their tools and stuff. And I guess a wheelie suitcase is really just a
bag on wheels, just a cart on wheels, isn't it? It would have to be wooden, wouldn't it? It wouldn't
carriage with spokes. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know when something starts being a suitcase and starts
being a carriage. Size. Is it just choice? I'm obviously size.
The race wheel carriage for the night's template. Anyway, if anyone has an actual source for
the crusades being people galloping into the crusades pulling their wheelie suitcases.
It just doesn't sound very true. It sure doesn't. Okay, onto our next fight and that is James'
fact. Okay, my fact this week is that the largest known prime number has 24 million 862,088
digits. When written in binary, it has 82,589,933 digits, but they are all the number one.
That is unbelievable. It seems not a coincidence. It's not a coincidence. Okay, so I will quickly go
through this. Take your time, please. So prime number is something that has only two
multiple multiples one in itself. So 12 is not prime because you can have three, four or two
sixes, but 11 is because you can't divide it by anything else apart from itself. That's a
lulled everyone into a full sense of security thinking, yeah, I know that. Okay. And now, binary,
binary is a number that's made of zeros and ones. Rather than writing in ones, tens and hundreds,
you write in ones, twos, fours, eights, 16s, 32s, stuff like that. And so each zero or one represents
two or four and eight to 16, etc. So the binary number 1111 is one plus two plus four plus eight,
which is 15. Anyway, so the large prime numbers that we're all finding at the moment are called
the send primes and they're all in the form of two times two times two times two times two times two times
two times two, etc, etc, etc, etc, minus one. And they keep looking for all these different two
times two times two things and check if they're prime. And some of them are, and it also happens,
if you write any number that's two times two times two times two minus one, it can be written as a
string of ones in binary. It's one, one, one, one, one, one, one. And so this particular number,
which is two to the power of 82,589,933 minus one, is a prime number. And it's also written as one,
one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one in binary. Wow. Yeah, okay. That's almost there. That was
well explained. Yeah. Impressive. You should be a math teacher. So I saw this in scientific
American, this fact, which was really good. But here's a slightly more accessible maths fact
from that article. And that is that the word 29, if you write it in capital letters, can be written
with 29 straight line segments. That's quite nice, isn't it? Sorry, if you write that. So the T is a
line and a down was like W is four, four, five, six. And then if you add them all up, let's not do it
all, but they count to 29. That's really cool. That's how you convince the kids that you're a cool
teacher and stuff like that. And then you make your calculator spell boobless. And then you launch
into the prime number stuff. Yeah, most and primes, is it, so most and primes, like you say, are two
to the power something and then minus one. But we now keep finding these as the largest prime numbers.
Yes. So I think it's just because that's where people are looking. Got it. And they're kind of
easier to find because we know the kind of format that they take so we can keep looking for all the
different two to the power of n minus one. We can look at the next one, the next one, the next one,
eventually we'll find the prime number. Got it. The gap gets bigger, doesn't it? Because once you're
up to more than 74 million, the prime number theorem says only one and every 50 million numbers is prime.
So you're exactly quite a big gap. So if you start at two, two is prime and three is prime.
So at that stage, everything's prime. Yeah. But then you get to four and it all goes wrong. Yeah.
But then you get to five and then prime again. And then as you go up, there's fewer and fewer as
you go in. So Marin Mercen of Mercen prime fame was a monk. He was in the Minim's, he was a,
what was called a Minim monk. And he was also known as the post box of Europe because he was
eight letters. He was large and red. He was a really crucial scientific figure in the 1600s.
And he was called the post box of Europe because he was unbelievably well connected. So he was like one
of these society ladies who brings people together. So he was like really great mates with Galileo,
with Descartes, with Pascal, with Hobbes. And he used to communicate between them all and pass
their letters to each other. And that was what he was going around. Spreading gossip. He was the
postman of Europe, not the post box of Europe. So yeah. And in that way, he sort of spread ideas.
And then they were able to make discoveries based on each other's ideas. That's very cool. Very good.
You can earn money from discovering new prime numbers, which is nice. So this thing called Gimps,
what is it? The great internet Mercen prime search. It means that it's a little bit of software.
You can install on your computer and your computer will just in the background. So hunt for prime
numbers. But the prices are really variable. So currently, if you find a prime number that is
fewer than a hundred million digits long, you only get $3,000. That's still not bad for doing
literally nothing. It's better than a poke in the eye. But the first person to find a prime number
which had one million digits, so that's a hundred times smaller, got $50,000. Oh, that's a big jump,
isn't it? I know. And when the record passed 10 million digits in 2008, the price was $100,000.
Yeah, not worth it. I think you should get a prize if your number is particularly pleasing,
because I found that I've called the best prime numbers of 2016. So I was very excited.
And among the nominees is 314,159. Why is that special? It's 3.14.
Yeah, it's basically 100,000 times five. Isn't that beautiful? I think I'm going to propose that
as best prime number of all years, not just 2060. That is a really good one. I've got a rival.
Mine's maybe an evil prime number. Maybe that's a good one. What's it done? It's basically that,
yeah, but with some stuff around it, yeah. This is called Belfagore's prime. And it's a
palindrobe and it's also very pleasing number. So it's one, followed by 13 zeros, 13, very unlucky
number, followed by 666, followed by another 13 zeros, followed by one. Could you get unlucky?
And that's a prime number. That's a prime number. That's really strong. It's a cool one, isn't it? That's
very good. Yeah. My favorite prime number is... That's a sense you didn't think you'd say this.
Is it going to be a spin-off podcast? My favorite prime. My favorite is the number 524,287,
because that was proved to be prime by a guy called Kataldy in 1588. And then that was the largest
known prime number for 200 years. Wow. Yeah, until Euler came along. That's spoiled sport Euler.
Andy, what's your favorite prime number? 17. Any reason? I like it. I genuinely find it pleasing.
And I've liked it for years as well, by the way, guys. I didn't just make one up for my life.
Can I say another pie thing? Because I really like this. So he wants to memorize pie. You can use
a sentence. So this is the first few digits of pie. How I want to drink. Alcoholic, of course,
after the heavy lectures involving quantum mechanics, which is 3.141592653879.
And that's a number of letters in each word. I said again, how do I want to drink? How I want to drink?
How I want to drink 3.14155. Oh, clever. Alcoholic. 9, of course.2626. And you can go on forever. I mean,
pie goes on a long time. And I was hoping we could, I was going to make one up for James's prime number,
but yeah, 23 million digits. We said we did a prime number podcast in episode 98. I don't know if
you remember that. I'm sure the list is a whole remember. This was when the last really big
prime number was found. And we said that if you were to write it out, it would take three months.
But I worked out that this one, if you were to write it down, would take you nine months.
And, but then again, that's the 24,862,000 version. If you're to write it in binary,
it's 82 million digits, but they're all the number one. And so I tied myself right in the number
one as quickly as I could do five or second for ten seconds. Don't want to show off. I did that
quite recently. And so I worked out that even though it's a lot longer, it would only take me six
months to write the binary version out. And it would take me nine months to write. Are you
factoring in the inevitable arthritis that's going to hit you in about a month? Three. I was thinking
getting half way through and forgetting how many ones you've written. There are other good ways
of doing it. So, for example, you could write with all four limbs at once. You could put a pencil
in each hand in each foot. Does it have to be coherently written or does it have to be just all over the
place? I think you need to be able to tell that they're ones and not just... Okay, what you could do is
you could get a pencil and you could just draw a long line, just run along a very long wall. And then
someone after you goes along with a rubber, just rubbing out gaps. And then turn it kind of nice as
horizontal, isn't it? Or have you been drawing ones the wrong way? Well, and these dashes are actually
ones. My taxes were in a very bad shape. But all these methods are going to be considered cheating
in this fictional and absurd game that you've finished. And actually in these versions, I don't sleep
in any of them either. Right. I think in this one. There's no sleeping. Okay, anyone got anything else?
You have some illegal prime numbers. Oh yeah. Yeah, ones that you're not allowed to say.
Say one, I tell you. Four, eight, five, six, five. Actually, it's got 1,401 digits in it, so I'm not
going to say them all. That's the only reason I'm not going to say them all. Because you're afraid.
No, not afraid of the people who make DVDs anymore. So this is a decryption algorithm which could
theoretically be used by a computer to circumvent a DVDs copy protection. If you know what this
prime number is. And people wanted to put it on t-shirts and stuff like that because they were so
annoyed by the man telling them what prime numbers they've got, they can't say. But I suppose DVDs
aren't really used that much anymore. Does it matter? That's one of those archaic laws that you find
on the books, thousands of years later. Like anyone who has a black capsule allowed to urinate on the
back wheel and carry a bayonet of hay or something. Exactly. Yeah, let's strike it from the macrocarza.
Okay, let's move on to our final fact. And that is Andrew Antamari. My fact is that to preserve
their anonymity, Michelin restaurant reviewers are advised to not tell even their parents what they do
for a living. Wow, it's really secretive. Yeah, that's why it's so secretive is that so the restaurants
can't spot them. Basically, yeah. Yeah, because Michelin pride themselves on their anonymity.
This comes from a huge feature that the New Yorker wrote about this about 10 years ago actually.
So a lot of Michelin company executives have never met an inspector.
You are kind of allowed to tell your spouse, for example, but it's otherwise they'd be a bit suspicious
that you're taking them to restaurants every day. Oh, we're forwarding this. You don't have a job.
And they do eat out a lot. Yeah, they have to dine out two hundred days a year. Oh,
didams. All they're driving in between places and they have to fill out reports for hours and hours
a day about these places. They have to eat the maximum number of courses offered. They can't skip
putting ever. They have to eat everything on their plate. It's like, no, it's true. Well, they have
to judge, you know, whether they're the seared, whatever. You know, I've been putting until you've
eaten your vegetables. It's basically like being a child. Wait, but they don't have to eat all of
everything surely. What is it? If they've had one piece, it's not like the last piece. You don't
have to have all the peas. Yeah, if the peas are all full, the article says they have to eat everything
on their plate. That's true, actually, because what happens if one of the peas is off the people
who read this review, they want to know that, don't they? But if they also, if they bring you 500
peas and you think there's too many peas, you can't just have one piece. Oh, yeah, the peas are great.
You should make a note. They bring too many peas. I think the reviews are normally more complex than
going to 80 peas. Why don't they keep sending into little shits? We're never going to give them a star guy.
Well, I like the, um, Michelin is sort of, we think of it as sort of fine dining, but it wasn't meant
to mean that. It was meant to mean one star was very good cooking, two was exceptional worth a
detour, and three was exceptional, worth a special journey. It was supposed to be how much it was worth
making the trip, so it couldn't be how there's a really good little chef. So two is worth a detour. So
basically a one Michelin star restaurant is not worth making a detour to go. If you're passing.
If you only go to a one Michelin star restaurant, if you're walking past them. Yeah, they were saying
next door. That was pretty fun. I was reading about restaurant reviewers in newspapers, which is a
similar kind of thing, isn't it? There's a famous one whose name is Frank Bruney, who I really like
because his name is the plural of Frank Bruney. And he says that, um, he always wears a wig and fake
moustaches, but the problem was that one of his books, his early books had his face on the cover,
and then the dust jacket got put on the internet. But you think you wouldn't put your face on the
cover of your own book, wouldn't you? No, you can't complain about your book cover appearing on the
internet. Maybe he didn't know that he was going to be in a anonymous restaurant reviewer,
maybe it's different back. The UK doesn't have many anonymous reviewers. There's Marina O'Lachlan,
who writes for the Sunday Times, and she always covers her face with a plate. Not where she dines at the
Oh, you're a piece of it in your lap Marina.
And she says it's a real struggle because obviously it's quite a small, you know,
hut cuisine food scene. Yeah. And she also, she's done interviews saying, my husband is incapable of
going out for dinner with me without bellowing Marina at the top of his voice. But I have read about
people who, when they're dying by themselves, like to take a notebook, because it sort of freaks people
out as if you go in and sit there with your notepad on the pen. Excellent. Everyone's like,
we'll miss you, because so Michelin Reviews aren't allowed, are they? They're not allowed to take
notes, because yeah, it gives the game away. They're in great bluff to pretend that you're not a
Michelin Reviewer. That's what I always do. I go to Michelin Star restaurants and I don't take a
note pad. As soon as they see that, they become a reviewer. They're sent into a panic every single customer.
It's like being a really low stake spy, isn't it? It's like if you're, if you're a coward, but you
want to be a spy, you should be one of these people. It's so stressful. There's one, I really like
Ruth Riker. I think that's how you say her name. And she goes to enormous lengths. So she was a
reviewer for The New York Times as well. And she started Wayne Disguises because she realised that
restaurants were offering rewards of up to $1,500 for people who could spot her so they would know
if she was going. And so she created all these alteriegos and she really lives the part. So she said,
her first alteriego was a mousey woman called Molly Hollis. She was a woman who had 30 years and
40 pounds on the real me. I said Rachel, so she would be dressed it up. And then she turned into Chloe,
a brazen blonde who flirted with waiters, and then sweet earthy red-headed Brenda. And then
after a time she was followed by Frumpy Old Betty. But I think the thing about being spies
is really interesting. So obviously, spies don't know how to tell people what they do for a living.
And there was a former CIA agent called Douglas Lang, who did an AMA on Reddit. And he said he
told his family he was a low-level salesman. He just didn't tend to be like more questions.
But when he got sent to Afghanistan, he told his family he's going to Hawaii because he thought
it's far enough away. For the kept running visit him. And he was like, yeah, we can't do that.
Because that's the same thing as the restaurant guys. Like, why are we going to these casinos
everything? But the best thing I read about the spies thing is that there's not really a way of
testing who's psychologically sort of good to be a spy and what sort of effect keeping the
secrets has on you. Because there aren't enough spies who've come out about being a spy. He will
volunteer for your survey. And there was a paper in the Journal of the Association of Former
Intelligence Officers, which I would love to read, about, yeah, there's problem that you can't
study the spies because it's all secrets. So we don't really know what impact
creating a false identity has for the spies and presumably for the restaurant critics as well.
I read the, what I think is the first restaurant review of all time. It's from 1859.
What the hell was that? I just experienced.
It was like having a meal at home, but I was in someone else's building.
Yes, I know it was better than that actually. If you can believe it, it was written in 1859.
It's really long. And actually, it's a review of lots of restaurants. They went to about
10 different restaurants. A lot of it is taken up by the first full page of the paper is taken up
with the person saying how bizarre it is that the editors sent them on this mission in the first
place. It's a stupid idea that will never catch up. Is it English? Or is it French or is it?
It's New York Times American in New York. And it's so good actually. It really, it starts the
tradition from the start of the AA Guild style. Great reviewing. So it describes one of the restaurants
he goes into. He says, you walk in. There's a pervading atmosphere of gravy of which you become more
sensual. He had a lot of stuff. He said for any amount of gravy of which you become more sensual as
you penetrate further into the crowded room. A guest has no sooner seated himself than a plate
as flung at him by an irritated and perspiring wacer. It's so good. I'm going to go to this restaurant.
You like a perspiring wacer. The jerking of the plate at customers is closely followed up by a
similar performance with the knife and fork. And he's very strong on waiter's outfits. That seems
to be the thing that this reviewer most cares about. He says, I prefer the man who is so good as to
bring me what I'm about to eat should not appear in soiled garments. Where were the standards they are?
That too is my bare minimum. Another waiter shot himself. But the food was delicious. You can't
charge by the shitting himself. I'm going to put you off a bit. One of the first professional restaurant
critics was Grimo de la Reineur, who was French. He became a gomonde because something that happened
in an early age. His parents were away and his father returned from wherever they were to find a pig,
dressed up and presiding at his dinner table. And the story made the rounds in Paris and became
quite famous. And so the family disinherited him and sent him to an abbey close to Nancy where he
became friends with the abbot and the abbot taught him the art of good eating. And then eventually he
became the restaurant critic. And did he learn that the art of good eating does not involve dressing up
a pig? He didn't say that you're a guy who came up with the dishes afterwards. We would love this.
There was a pig in the most immaculate dress. He had not the chance himself.
I read about him and he was really cool. De la Reineur. And he created this jury. So the first restaurant
critic was there was 17 of him because it was him and 16 buddies. Prime number. Right, my fave.
And they met every week to taste food. But obviously you couldn't have 17 people going to
the same restaurant as a critic because it would definitely be pretty obvious. But they met.
So it's so hard to book a table for any people. Yeah, that's true. But they met every week at the same
place and the restaurants sent their food to them. No, yeah. That's such a good idea. It's weird,
isn't it? So yeah. Although I would have thought the food quality might degrade in transit.
Delivery was nice. He also gave his own funeral to see who would come before he was dead.
Before he was dead. Yeah, yeah. And then he rose from the dead halfway through.
Oh, brilliant. It sounds amazing. It's a dramatic guy, really fun.
I look a bit more into the history of Michelin. So when they started doing the guides,
there were only 3000 cars in France. So it's a bit more of a, wasn't he? Everybody had.
And so I didn't rose. The Michelin man, you're the guy made out of tires, was really posh when
he first came out to appeal to the, he's like, oh, for classless. So he had a monocle as cigar,
cufflinks and a cigarette ring. And then as cars became more of a, for everyone, they had to like,
turn him down. That's really fun, really good. Well, this, because I don't think people
know the reason that the Michelin stars came about really, the reason Michelin guy came about was
because they made tires and they wanted to encourage people to use their tires by driving to lots of
restaurants. So they wore them out so that they would have to buy new tires, which does seem like a
convoluted way of selling more tires. Should we just pull tires out of the tires now?
That must be why he's made of white tires, because we've said tires used to be white.
Tires used to be white. They actually collared him black for a brief period when tires became black
with asphalt, but because it was bound for printing, it didn't really work. So they made him white again.
Wow. But you know what he's called? He has name, which is Bebendum. And his, his name means
now is the time for drinking, or there's drinking to be done. But not driving. Well, no, there's exactly.
And he was always, he was initially known as the road drunkard, genuinely. And basically,
the posters for him originally showed him as, as Anne says, with, you know, with a monocle and with
champagne and everything. But he was drinking a big glass. And the glass was full of nails and broken
glass and all this horrible stuff. And the idea behind the poster is that Michelin tires
drink up obstacles without puncturing. So he can soak up all this broken glass and all these nails
and he won't deflate. He'll be fine. That's not an easy message to get from that image.
I think I know. It's weird. It's a weird image.
Also, it's strange for something that, you know, is associated with high quality food and drink
to sort of be recommending a glass filled with crap. And that does show that they didn't really adapt
the original logo, because it was originally designed for a beer company, wasn't it? And I think
it was rejected. The guy who drew the Michelin man Bebendum. That's why he was called that.
And why he was drinking. But what was he? Why was he made of tires?
That they did adjust it to make him taste of tires. He's a portly man. They thought I will add
some tires. You could see why the beer company rejected it.
The only reason why he is made of tires is just what it would work. He used to do live gigs,
the Michelin man. So this is, in 1898, he had his first ever live gig, which is Andre Michelin,
one of the brothers behind the company. He hired a stall at a Paris cycle show. He set up a big
cardboard cutout of the Michelin man. And then he hired a cabaret comedian to crouch behind it
and provide banter with the audience. That's brilliant. And he was apparently so good and drew
such a massive crowd that rival storeholders started pushing and shoving and getting angry,
because he was taking all their custom. And they had to call the police. Wow, he was a comedian.
Yeah, a big hard-drinking comedian, little swimming, cufflink wearing. You two had a lot of cover.
Okay, that's all of our facts for this week. Thanks so much for listening. If you would like to get
in touch with any of us, you can find these guys on their Twitter feed. So Anne is on. At Miller_Anne.
And he's on. At Andrew Hunter M. James is on. At James Harkin. And you can email me on podcast@QI.com.
Or you can listen to any of our old episodes or get tickets for our tour if you go to
NoSuchThingsAffish.com. That is all from us this week. We'll be back again next week with another
episode. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye.
Goodbye. I can't say goodbye. Pretty no without goodbye.